# SIPPs

## What is a self-invested personal pension (SIPP)?

A self-invested personal pension (SIPP) is a pension ‘wrapper’ that holds investments until you retire and start to draw a pension income. It is a type of personal pension and works in a similar way to a standard personal pension. **The main difference is that with a SIPP, you have more flexibility with the investments you can choose**.

Most SIPPs allow you to select from a range of assets, such as:

- individual stocks and shares quoted on a recognised UK or overseas stock exchange
- government securities
- unit trusts
- investment trusts
- insurance company funds
- traded endowment policies
- deposit accounts with banks and building societies
- national savings products
- commercial property (such as offices, shops or factory premises)

These aren’t all of the investment options that are available – different SIPP providers offer different investment options.

## Who choose/manage the investment?

- You
- An authorised investment manager that you pay


SIPPs are designed for **people who want to manage their own fund** by dealing with, and switching, their investments when they want to. Whereas with standard personal pension schemes, your investments are managed for you within the pooled fund you have chosen.

SIPPs are so a form of personal pension that give you the freedom to choose and manage your own investments. Another option is to pay **an authorised investment manager** to make the decisions for you.

## For who are SIPPs?

SIPPs tend to be more suitable for large funds and for **people who are experienced in investing** because SIPPs can also have higher charges than other personal pensions or stakeholder pensions.

